So tell me about your National Series.
Yes, well, you had the option. When you were called up, you went for an interview.
So the first thing you did was you made out all your terrible illnesses and complaints.
You emphasised all these in the hope that you would be declared not fit enough to go.
But the fact that I did faint at the sight of blood and various other things, they said,
OK, we'll class you as Grade 2, but we're taking Grade 2s.
So which branch of the service do you want to go into?
So I plumped for the Royal Air Force and they said with my background they would take me in the Air Force.
So about three weeks later you get the dreaded letter with a railway voucher telling you to report to RAF Cardington,
which is near Bedford, and make your own way there, which is what I did.
I got on the train and I ended up in the old airship facility, which is RAF Cardington,
which was where they kept and built the airships.
And the hangars were now being used to fit you out with your uniforms and everything else.
And then you were there for three days and then you were allocated to a basic training camp.
And the one I was allocated to was RAF Bridgnorth, which is in Shropshire.
So I didn't find that very arduous at all because having spent six years in a British public school,
going into the Army is relatively easy.
And I'd also been in the cadet force there, so I knew how to march, I knew how to carry a rifle,
how to slope arms, how to order arms, how to strip a Bren gun, all that sort of thing was all very familiar to me.
So I really had no problem with basic training.
Then after eight weeks you're given a weekend pass and you're sent home
and then told to report for your trade training after that training.
You're given the choice of where they will take you.
And my first choice was photography because that was my hobby.
So before they would take you on the photography course, they sent you off to do a test.
Now I think they didn't really want National Servicemen on the photography department
because that was one of the better trades to go into.
And they really kept it for the people who'd signed on for three years or longer.
But it was a rule that if a National Serviceman says he wants to do it, he should be allowed to take the test.
Now what they didn't tell me in the test was what they were looking for.
They gave me a series of negatives, put me into the darkroom and said,
well there you are, get on with it, print these negatives for us.
So I did as best I could. I knew how to develop and print things.
And of course what they were really looking for was beautifully, how shall I say,
balance negatives all the same with the same level of black and white.
Because obviously these are photographs taken from a plane.
When they're all joined together on a table, they need to look like one.
Well of course mine, some were lighter, some were darker, and they looked like terrible patchwork.
So they said, well I'm sorry you failed.
But of course if they told me that I need to get them all the same, I could have made more effort.
But I didn't. So that was that. So the next option was radio.
So I did quite well in physics in school and I did in university.
And I liked electrical engineering so I said, well I want to become a radio fitter.
So fair enough. The course was nine months long.
It was in RAF Compton, Bassett, which is near Caen in Wiltshire.
And so I went off there for nine months and I quite enjoyed that.
Because of what I'd done in university I didn't find it particularly difficult.
And I passed that course and I came out as a junior technician,
which is you get one upside down stripe on your arm.
And then because I wanted to sit my university exams again I'd applied for a home posting.
So that was granted and my posting came through when I was posted to Gloucester, RAF Innsworth.
Now by this time I was engaged to Jill and Jill had got herself a job in Gloucester at the art college.
So I thought, ah, heaven, here we are. I'll be in the RAF Innsworth and we'll be together again.
So I marched in through the gate at RAF Innsworth and the chap who was on guard there took one look at my papers
and he said, oh, he said, you're posted to 15 Squadron RAF Regiment.
He said, they're in Northern Ireland. You'll be off tomorrow.
So I had one night in Gloucester, said goodbye to Jill.
And the next day I was on the trek to Northern Ireland, to Londonderry.
And that is where I spent the rest of the time, all except for the last two months when the whole regiment was transferred to Felixstowe.
And then I went to Felixstowe and in Felixstowe I was demobbed and then I came back and that was my two years national service.
But I never really regretted it. I know it was a waste of two years,
but during that period I grew up and you go in a boy and you come out a man, which is pretty true.
And I learned quite a lot. I never really managed to learn how to fix the radios because they were so old and they didn't work anyway.
And I couldn't get them to work. And it didn't seem to bother the RAF Regiment at all.
They didn't need it. They were guarding the airfield. The troubles with the IRA hadn't really started in those days.
They were just rumblings and we had to go out and guard various radio masts.
They gave us a rifle, but they didn't give us any bullets. So I don't know what good the rifle was.
And our joke was if we have to challenge someone and have to shoot him, well, we have to make a loud bang because that's all we could do or club him with a rifle.
It wasn't taken very seriously. And we got on well enough with the locals. All this business of the troubles hadn't taken off.
Some of the boys went out with the local girls.
This was what, 1956, 1958?
Yes, yes. I mean the trouble started in the 70s didn't it?